Hey everybody.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income with
Bootstrap To WordPress.
In this lecture,
we're gonna create a resources page and
code the three column layout.
[MUSIC]
All right, so lets jump right in and
code this resources page.
In your code editor,
create a new file called resources.html.
And we're going to want to get that
skeleton set up, so just go ahead and
grab any page, really.
Maybe, lets grab the blog here.
And lets start off by copying
the head right here.
Copy that.
Paste it in your resource.html.
And go ahead, get back there and
copy the bottom here so
from HTML, the closing the HTML tag.
All the way up to.
Well let's see what does it
look like here, the final page.
So we have the sign up section.
So go ahead and copy all of this including
the modal, we'll remove it from the code.
Because we don't necessarily need it for
this one or we could leave it.
It's fine.
We'll remove it in WordPress.
Grab the footer, the sign up section.
There we go.
Right up to the sign-up section,
from the closing HTML tag up to
the beginning of the sign-up section.
Paste that.
All right.
So we should have our basic skeleton here.
And within here,
just gonna make sure we have everything.
Okay.
Right after the head, that's where
we're going to add the body tag.
And now we already have a closing
body tag way down here, so
we don't need to add the closing one,
just the opening one.
Give it the class of full-width and
resources.
We're going to utilize those in our CSS.
And then down here header.
Well, actually let's
not code all that out.
Let's copy that header from the blog
again, because it's the navigation bar.
We're gonna need that.
So grab header, copy that,
paste that header in there.
There we go.
And here let's change this active class
to highlight their resources page.
Save that.
Now let's just make sure
we have everything.
Go to your page, click on resources.
Okay we're getting something here.
We're gonna also need this header.
So that would be back in your blog, and
under the header we have a section
with a class of feature image.
Now go back to your resources.
Paste that right in under the header.
Change this to resources.
And remove feature image default alt,
and make it just feature image default.
Save that.
And now we should have a skeleton for
our resources page.
There we go.
Now I'll start adding
the rest of the content.
Right here after your feature image, let's
just give that an HTML comment there.
Feature image.
Let's add another section.
This will be the main content and
we're gonna have a div with
the class of container.
Within here we'll have a row
with the ID of primary.
Let's not forget that like
we did in the last couple.
And in there we're gonna have
div with the ID of content and
the class of call small 12.
So full width,
suppose you can change this to content.
And in content we're going to have
a section with the class
of the main dash content.
Within that main content
we're gonna have some text,
paragraph with the class of lead, and in
there we'll say welcome to the Bootstrap
to WordPress resources page.
And yadda yadda yadda you can go ahead and
copy that out or just put Larumepsum.
We're gonna add another paragraph here.
And that's gonna have an M tag within
it as our transparency disclosure
regarding our affiliate
links if we are using them.
Please keep in mind some of the following
Resources are my affiliate links.
Should you decide to make a purchase I
will earn a small commission at no extra
cost to you.
I am recommending these resources
only because I have found them to
be incredibly helpful.
Don't spend your money on any products or
resources unless you think
they will benefit you.
All right after that,
let's add a horizontal rule.
And then now we're gonna add a div with
a class of resource-row and clearfix.
Resource-row, within resource-row.
We're going to add a div
of the class of resource.
There we go.
And in there, we're going to add an image,
and that source will be,
assets/img/justhost-logo.jpg.
This will be just host, the alt text.
And then, we'll have a level three
heading, with an A tag within it.
I'm going to put my specific
affiliate tag there, and just host.
I think this is the proper way to
spell Justhost without the camel case.
Paragraph tag.
I'm just gonna put the text here.
I believe I have included in
the copy deck, the resources text.
There you go.
So you could just copy and
paste right from the copy deck.
So you don't have to
waste time on this part.
Just copy and paste and
a couple of paragraph tags.
And then I'm going to have an a tag,
hf will be again my affiliate link.
And I will give that the class of btn and
btn-success, and
then Get started with Justhost.
Okay, then after that, I'm gonna copy
this resource that I just coded,
paste it, and I'm just gonna
change all this stuff around for
the next resource, which will be
Coda2-logo, the alt text will be, Coda 2.
And then, I'm gonna add the Coda
2 text and the Coda 2 button.
So, the button down here, remember to keep
it the same class, and just some new text.
We'll copy and paste this out again for
the next resource, and
that will be dropbox logo and
then dropbox,
these links will be dropboxed.
I had to change my Coda 2 link here.
Almost forgot.
Okay, back to our Dropbox.
This changes to say Dropbox.
And then I'm going to have my
Dropbox text and my Dropbox button.
Perfect.
Save that.
Check it out in your browser.
Okay, there we go.
So, we have our text, perfect.
And then we have our lists of resources.
You can tell that they are not
in a three column layout.
And you may be wondering, why didn't I
use the Bootstrap three column layout?
Well, in this case, what I want to do
is use custom CSS because what I found,
if I'm using the Bootstrap
three column layout,
you need to have each row in a row class.
And you need to know exactly how many
elements are going to be in those rows.
However, when you put this in WordPress,
these are gonna be dynamic elements.
And if you have two elements,
two will show up.
If you have six elements, six will show
up, eight will show up, ten will show up,
however many you put.
So when you start adding all
these resources in WordPress, and
if you have a fourth resource,
it's going to jump down to the next line.
But it's gonna have a margin on the side,
on the left.
And it will be out of sorts.
The layout will be kinda broken.
And that's because it's not adding
a new row, because it's dynamic.
So this way,
I'm just going to bypass all that mess and
I'm just going to code it
myself using percentage widths.
So that it always looks good.
So why don't we just go in there and start
styling it and I'll show you what I mean.
Go to your CSS.
Now we're gonna scroll
down past our comments.
And right here,
we're gonna style our resources
Very simple, not a lot of CSS here.
You'll be surprised at how quick it is.
I'm going to select the resource and
say width: 31.33333333.
I believe that is the correct
amount of threes.
One, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight three's percent.
I copied this basically from
Bootstrap's native CSS.
And that's how wide
the three column grid is.
So I'm just trying to replicate that.
Float left.
Margin, 0, 3% on the right, 40 pixels
on the bottom, and 0 on the left.
Now, I want to select,
if I go back and check it out.
You can see,
the third one's not floating up here,
that's because this one has
a margin of 3% on the right.
But every third element,
I don't want to it to have a margin.
So that once we have three, six,
nine, twelve, however many resources,
I wanna make sure that they float
perfectly in their respective layout.
So we gotta remove the margin
on every third element.
Luckily CSS3 lets us dynamically
choose the third element.
No matter how many elements there are.
So, resource: nth-child(3n).
That selects every third element
that has the class of resource.
Margin-right: 0; Now look.
There you go.
Floats right up there perfectly.
And, we're responsive.
Now if you look here,
this isn't quite gonna work for me here.
Once we are down to a mobile
size it's a little too squished.
So we're just gonna change
that in our media query.
So why don't we jump back,
scroll down to our media queries.
There they are.
And that's where we're just
going to do a few more styles.
So right here, max width 768.
Let's add a style here.
48% for the width Margin-right 2%.
That should be good for 768 and lower.
And then down here in 568,
let's go resource,
width: 100%, margin-right: 0.
Now save it, check it out,
resize your browser.
You'll see the changes happen.
So, we've got full width here.
There we go.
So it broke down to a couple of columns.
Maybe I'm gonna wanna add a little
bit more margin here on the bottom.
Because this kind of pops over.
It looks a little funny.
So, that is this one.
So right here we're just gonna give
these resources a minimum height.
So let's say minimum height 800 pixels.
So now if I save that and check it out
we shouldn't get any of those funny,
once it scrolls to this width
each of these resources will have
the minimum height of 800 pixels so that
will give us plenty of space to be able
to see them without the layout breaking.
But once it gets to here I don't
want that minimum height, so
let's just remove it right here.
Resource, min-height: 0.
Here we go.
And, now we're good.
So, the layout looks good
on mobile devices, as well.
And one more thing,
I don't like the padding right here.
There's just a little bit too much
padding on the top and the bottom.
As you can see here in the final
static site, there's less padding.
You see that?
So all we need to do is just select the
section with the class of main content,
which is this whole thing.
Let's just scroll up to
our layout section, and
let's go right here after section.
Section with a class of main content.
Padding, 40 pixels 0.
Now that will change that.
Perfect.
There we go.
And that's it.
There is our Resources page.
Looks awesome.
Super quick.
Hang on tight,
see you in the next lecture.
We're going to code the Contact page, then
after that, we're jumping into WordPress.
[MUSIC]